# Use capabilities introspection to know which API version should be targeted for the resources

**yorinasub17** commented *Dec 3, 2021*

## Description

This allows the `k8s-service` chart to be more flexible in targeting different Kubernetes versions, while still avoiding deprecated interfaces. For example, `PodDisruptionBudget` was located in `policy/v1beta1`, but has been moved to `policy/v1`, and the version in `policy/v1beta1` is now marked for deprecation since k8s 1.21. If the helm chart is being installed to a k8s cluster <1.21, then it is preferred to use `policy/v1beta1`, while targeting k8s cluster >=1.21 requires using `policy/v1`. To support this, we can introspect the `Capabilities` built in object to get metadata about the target k8s cluster, and select the right version to use based on that.

This PR addresses this kind of API discrepancy for `Ingress` and `PodDisruptionBudget` resources.


## TODOs

- [X] Ensure the branch is named correctly with the issue number. e.g: `feature/new-vpc-endpoints-955` or `bug/missing-count-param-434`.
- [X] Update the docs.
- [X] Keep the changes backwards compatible where possible.
- [X] Run the pre-commit checks successfully.
- [X] Run the relevant tests successfully.


<br />
***


**yorinasub17** commented *Dec 6, 2021*

Thanks for the review! Going to go ahead and merge this in as is. If you disagree with my assessment below, happy to open a follow up PR with the README update.

> Would it make sense to make a note about this in the README, so users would know which API versions are introspected without having to go through chart source code?

I think it's ok. I think it's considered standard helm practice to use the capabilities feature to ensure the right API version is always in use.
***

