# Adds Statefulset Support

**rvc-mf** commented *May 19, 2022*

## Description

Adds support for statefulset deployments.

This pull request introduces the following changes:
  - Adds an optional field called `workloadType` to `values.yaml`, where the default value is `deployment` but `statefulset` is also an option. 
  - Adds a `_statefulset_spec.tpl` template which gets used when `workloadType` is set to `statefulset`. In turn, `_deployment_spec_tpl` only gets used when `workloadType` is set to `deployment`. 
  - Add an optional `updateStrategy` field to `values.yaml` which gets injected into `updateStrategy` on `statefulset` workloads (`workloadType: statefulset`). `deploymentStrategy` continues getting injected into `strategy` on `deployment` workloads.  
  - Add an optional `name` field under `service` due to Statefulset workload requirements. `service` could still have `enabled: false` if the service resource is created outside of the chart.

None of these changes are breaking, as statefulset support is optional and off-by-default. Pre-existing charts should be able to use this version without encountering issues. Similarly, I don't expect any downtime from the changes. 

### Documentation

I have updated the README in `/charts/k8s-service` to indicate that statefulsets are also deployable by the chart. I have also added proper documentation on each field that was added/edited in the chart's `values.yaml`.

I have also added three tests that test the correctness of `statefulset` canary deployments, similar to how `deployment` workloads are tested. You can find the output here: https://gist.github.com/rvc-mf/c2c4c82713cd8da4a95a3bf079d43cb4

Furthermore, I have successfully deployed several statefulset applications using these changes (previously made in a "private" fork) in other projects.

## TODOs

Please ensure all of these TODOs are completed before asking for a review.

- [x] Ensure the branch is named correctly with the issue number. e.g: `feature/new-vpc-endpoints-955` or `bug/missing-count-param-434`.
- [x] Update the docs.
- [x] Keep the changes backward compatible where possible.
- [x] Run the pre-commit checks successfully.
- [x] Run the relevant tests successfully.


## Related Issues
  Addresses #136 
<br />
***


**rvc-mf** commented *Sep 29, 2022*

Bumping this up as it's been a couple of months with no response. @autero1 Is there anything missing from this PR that I should work on before it's ready for review?
***

**mloskot** commented *Apr 11, 2023*

It is a useful addition indeed ðŸ‘ 
***

**rimoore** commented *May 18, 2023*

@yorinasub17 this is a good feature.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *May 18, 2023*

Hiya! Responding because I was tagged - unfortunately, I am no longer with Gruntwork so I can't do anything to move this along ðŸ˜ž
Sorry I can't be of help here!
***

**rvc-mf** commented *Aug 14, 2023*

Bumping this again. @rhoboat @zackproser @autero1 
***

**zackproser** commented *Aug 20, 2023*

Hi @rvc-mf - none of the folks you've pinged here work at Gruntwork any longer.
***

**mloskot** commented *Aug 20, 2023*

AFAICT, this project is orphaned and should be archived to indicate the unmaintained state. 
***

**brandon-langley-mf** commented *Aug 21, 2023*

> AFAICT, this project is orphaned and should be archived to indicate the unmaintained state.

How is it an orphaned project if it's actively being used by the k8s-service terraform module? Let alone a module you released not 2 weeks ago now.

***

**rvc-mf** commented *Aug 21, 2023*

> Hi @rvc-mf - none of the folks you've pinged here work at Gruntwork any longer.

@zackproser I pinged the people who were assigned to review the PR automatically. Where can I find a list of people who can look at these changes?
***

**arsci** commented *Aug 21, 2023*

Hi @rvc-mf, I'll make sure this PR gets routed to the right SME for review.
***

**mloskot** commented *Aug 21, 2023*

> > AFAICT, this project is orphaned and should be archived to indicate the unmaintained state.
> 
> How is it an orphaned project if it's actively being used by the k8s-service terraform module? Let alone a module you released not 2 weeks ago now.

I use the [charts/k8s-service](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/helm-kubernetes-services/tree/main/charts/k8s-service) in my own IasC and I've been watching this project for quite a while, and based on at least two 

- this fairly trivial non-intrusive PR has been dandling for almost 1.5 year without any conclusive decision
- my #156 about quite a serious issue, at least from point of AKS users, has been dangling without a single word of response for half a year now

tells the gut feeling of my 20+ years of experience as an open source developer and contributor that this project has been orphaned.
***

**josh-padnick** commented *Aug 21, 2023*

Hi folks, Gruntwork co-founder and Chief Product Officer here. I'm sorry for the delays and lack of response from our team. As a few folks have mentioned, all those Grunts subscribed to this thread happen to be no longer with the company, so this escaped our radar screen.

But as of today, it escapes us no more. As @arsci said, we'll route this to the right SMEs and get an official response on priority here. 
***

**ryehowell** commented *Aug 21, 2023*

Hey all, as @josh-padnick mentioned, apologies for the lack of traction on this one. I just got this added to our project board to get prioritized for a review. Feel free to tag me for anything related to this repo as I am now one of the maintainers of this project. Review soon to come!
***

**mloskot** commented *Aug 21, 2023*

Awesome news, thank you! 
***

**rvc-mf** commented *Sep 12, 2023*

@ryehowell , I believe I've accounted for all the changes you've mentioned in your comment, but I'm running into issues with the testing suite. I can't seem to get it to work, even for tests that cover files that I didn't change. See the error log below (this is on a file I have not changed): 

```bash
$ go test -v -tags all -timeout 60m -run TestK8SServiceCanaryDeployment
# (...)
TestK8SServiceCanaryDeployment 2023-09-12T07:36:48-06:00 logger.go:66: Error: INSTALLATION FAILED: services "k8s-service-canary-ykmv5h-canary-test" already exists
=== NAME  TestK8SServiceCanaryDeployment
    install.go:16: 
                Error Trace:    $HOME/projects/helm-kubernetes-services/test/install.go:16
                                                        $HOME/projects/helm-kubernetes-services/test/k8s_service_canary_deployment_test.go:53
                Error:          Received unexpected error:
                                error while running command: exit status 1; Error: INSTALLATION FAILED: services "k8s-service-canary-ykmv5h-canary-test" already exists
                Test:           TestK8SServiceCanaryDeployment
TestK8SServiceCanaryDeployment 2023-09-12T07:36:48-06:00 logger.go:66: Running command helm with args [delete --namespace k8s-service-canary-ykmv5h k8s-service-canary-ykmv5h]
TestK8SServiceCanaryDeployment 2023-09-12T07:36:49-06:00 logger.go:66: release "k8s-service-canary-ykmv5h" uninstalled
TestK8SServiceCanaryDeployment 2023-09-12T07:36:49-06:00 client.go:42: Configuring Kubernetes client using config file $HOME/.kube/config with context 
--- FAIL: TestK8SServiceCanaryDeployment (0.47s)
FAIL
exit status 1
FAIL    github.com/gruntwork-io/helm-kubernetes-services/test   0.488s
```
I tried debugging the error and it seems like the error happens at the helm module ("github.com/gruntwork-io/terratest/modules/helm") in one of the RunCommand steps. Here's an example command the `helm.Install` code generates:

```bash
Running command helm with args [install --namespace k8s-service-ykmv5h -f /home/rogvc/projects/helm-kubernetes-services/charts/k8s-service/linter_values.yaml -f /home/rogvc/projects/helm-kubernetes-services/test/fixtures/main_statefulset_values.yaml k8s-service-ykmv5h /home/rogvc/projects/helm-kubernetes-services/charts/k8s-service]
```
Any tips on how to proceed?
***

**ryehowell** commented *Oct 6, 2023*

Hey @rvc-mf , apologies for the delay here. We've been working on getting some new features out for our EKS module. I'll do another review of this and take a look at the failing test as well. 

@mateimicu, would you be available to help review this? I've got this in my queue, but wanted see if you would like to take a look at this as well ðŸ˜„  to cast a wider net on this. 
***

**mateimicu** commented *Oct 6, 2023*

> Hey @rvc-mf , apologies for the delay here. We've been working on getting some new features out for our EKS module. I'll do another review of this and take a look at the failing test as well.
> 
> @mateimicu, would you be available to help review this? I've got this in my queue, but wanted see if you would like to take a look at this as well ðŸ˜„ to cast a wider net on this.

@ryehowell sure :D, I will take a look today
***

**mloskot** commented *Oct 6, 2023*

FYA, although I'm in no position to provide a technical review of this PR, I would like to **_endorse it_** as a user of this project.
I have been using the change in this PR in a setup of a few AKS clusters for 6 months now and w/o any issues.
Thank you @rvc-mf rv and others involved.
***

**mateimicu** commented *Oct 6, 2023*

> @ryehowell , I believe I've accounted for all the changes you've mentioned in your comment, but I'm running into issues with the testing suite. I can't seem to get it to work, even for tests that cover files that I didn't change. See the error log below (this is on a file I have not changed):
> 
> ```shell
> $ go test -v -tags all -timeout 60m -run TestK8SServiceCanaryDeployment
> # (...)
> TestK8SServiceCanaryDeployment 2023-09-12T07:36:48-06:00 logger.go:66: Error: INSTALLATION FAILED: services "k8s-service-canary-ykmv5h-canary-test" already exists
> === NAME  TestK8SServiceCanaryDeployment
>     install.go:16: 
>                 Error Trace:    $HOME/projects/helm-kubernetes-services/test/install.go:16
>                                                         $HOME/projects/helm-kubernetes-services/test/k8s_service_canary_deployment_test.go:53
>                 Error:          Received unexpected error:
>                                 error while running command: exit status 1; Error: INSTALLATION FAILED: services "k8s-service-canary-ykmv5h-canary-test" already exists
>                 Test:           TestK8SServiceCanaryDeployment
> TestK8SServiceCanaryDeployment 2023-09-12T07:36:48-06:00 logger.go:66: Running command helm with args [delete --namespace k8s-service-canary-ykmv5h k8s-service-canary-ykmv5h]
> TestK8SServiceCanaryDeployment 2023-09-12T07:36:49-06:00 logger.go:66: release "k8s-service-canary-ykmv5h" uninstalled
> TestK8SServiceCanaryDeployment 2023-09-12T07:36:49-06:00 client.go:42: Configuring Kubernetes client using config file $HOME/.kube/config with context 
> --- FAIL: TestK8SServiceCanaryDeployment (0.47s)
> FAIL
> exit status 1
> FAIL    github.com/gruntwork-io/helm-kubernetes-services/test   0.488s
> ```
> 
> I tried debugging the error and it seems like the error happens at the helm module ("github.com/gruntwork-io/terratest/modules/helm") in one of the RunCommand steps. Here's an example command the `helm.Install` code generates:
> 
> ```shell
> Running command helm with args [install --namespace k8s-service-ykmv5h -f /home/rogvc/projects/helm-kubernetes-services/charts/k8s-service/linter_values.yaml -f /home/rogvc/projects/helm-kubernetes-services/test/fixtures/main_statefulset_values.yaml k8s-service-ykmv5h /home/rogvc/projects/helm-kubernetes-services/charts/k8s-service]
> ```
> 
> Any tips on how to proceed?

Hi @rvc-mf,
Thanks for the PR. I will need some time to give it a good read.

Let's first try and unblock you.

I managed to run the command you provided locally, `go test -v -tags all -timeout 60m -run TestK8SServiceCanaryDeployment` from the main branch. 

I think this fails because there is a name collision. 
The original services name is defined [here](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/helm-kubernetes-services/blob/main/charts/k8s-service/templates/service.yaml#L9C47-L9C47)  as `name: {{ include "k8s-service.fullname" . }}`
The default configuration for the headless service you introduced is defined [here](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/helm-kubernetes-services/pull/137/files#diff-1c151496f8b32de8eca1b9449bb55f4b195ac96c5d19653c45a597ea8d0c89b6R9-R13) and unless overwritten by `.Values.headlessService.name` collides with the original one.
```
  {{- if .Values.headlessService.name }}
  name: {{ .Values.headlessService.name }}
  {{- else }}
  name: {{ include "k8s-service.fullname" . }}
  {{- end }}
```
***

**rvc-mf** commented *Oct 24, 2023*

@mateimicu Thanks for the reply. I was able to find the issue and solve it on my latest changes. I'm now running into another issue that I think has more to do with my docker + minikube environment than the code changes. 

I checked out the `main` version of the repository and I'm trying to run the tests to get my environment up to speed before retesting my new changes, but I am still getting errors when doing so. 

Has anyone in your team seen a similar error to this when running the testing suite? 

Error we get when we add 'minikube' to /etc/hosts
> === NAME  TestK8SServiceCanaryDeployment
    k8s_service_example_test_helpers.go:234:
                Error Trace:    /home/rogvc/temp/helm-kubernetes-services/test/k8s_service_example_test_helpers.go:234
                                                        /home/rogvc/temp/helm-kubernetes-services/test/retry.go:68
                                                        /home/rogvc/temp/helm-kubernetes-services/test/retry.go:93
                                                        /home/rogvc/temp/helm-kubernetes-services/test/retry.go:68
                                                        /home/rogvc/temp/helm-kubernetes-services/test/retry.go:57
                                                        /home/rogvc/temp/helm-kubernetes-services/test/k8s_service_example_test_helpers.go:232
                                                        /home/rogvc/temp/helm-kubernetes-services/test/k8s_service_canary_deployment_test.go:59
                Error:          Received unexpected error:
                                Get "http://minikube:32085": dial tcp: lookup minikube on 15.122.222.53:53: no such host
                Test:           TestK8SServiceCanaryDeployment
TestK8SServiceCanaryDeployment 2023-10-24T11:45:27-06:00 logger.go:66: Running command helm with args [delete --namespace k8s-service-canary-hkznz5 k8s-service-canary-hkznz5]
TestK8SServiceCanaryDeployment 2023-10-24T11:45:27-06:00 logger.go:66: release "k8s-service-canary-hkznz5" uninstalled
TestK8SServiceCanaryDeployment 2023-10-24T11:45:27-06:00 client.go:42: Configuring Kubernetes client using config file /home/rogvc/.kube/config with context
--- FAIL: TestK8SServiceCanaryDeployment (26.76s)
FAIL

Error we get when we don't add it:
> === NAME  TestK8SServiceCanaryDeployment
    k8s_service_example_test_helpers.go:234:
                Error Trace:    /home/csmcclain/temp/helm-kubernetes-services/test/k8s_service_example_test_helpers.go:234
                                                        /home/csmcclain/temp/helm-kubernetes-services/test/retry.go:68
                                                        /home/csmcclain/temp/helm-kubernetes-services/test/retry.go:93
                                                        /home/csmcclain/temp/helm-kubernetes-services/test/retry.go:68
                                                        /home/csmcclain/temp/helm-kubernetes-services/test/retry.go:57
                                                        /home/csmcclain/temp/helm-kubernetes-services/test/k8s_service_example_test_helpers.go:232
                                                        /home/csmcclain/temp/helm-kubernetes-services/test/k8s_service_canary_deployment_test.go:59
                Error:          Received unexpected error:
                                Get "http://minikube:30961": dial tcp: lookup minikube on 127.0.0.53:53: server misbehaving
                Test:           TestK8SServiceCanaryDeployment
TestK8SServiceCanaryDeployment 2023-10-24T13:28:40-06:00 logger.go:66: Running command helm with args [delete --namespace k8s-service-canary-tomrer k8s-service-canary-tomrer]
TestK8SServiceCanaryDeployment 2023-10-24T13:28:40-06:00 logger.go:66: release "k8s-service-canary-tomrer" uninstalled
TestK8SServiceCanaryDeployment 2023-10-24T13:28:40-06:00 client.go:42: Configuring Kubernetes client using config file /home/csmcclain/.kube/config with context
--- FAIL: TestK8SServiceCanaryDeployment (15.92s)
FAIL


If y'all don't use Docker + Minikube to run tests, how do you set up a kubernetes cluster to run the test suite?
***

