# 171 inject Secret Store CSI driver `deployment_spec.tpl`

**omar-devolute** commented *Jul 18, 2023*

<!-- Prepend '[WIP]' to the title if this PR is still a work-in-progress. Remove it when it is ready for review! -->

## Description

Fixes #171 . Can be considered part (subtask) of #118 

In the deployment_spec.tpl we must allow a new "**as**" value to be passed to a secret block, we call this new type "csi".

Receiving this type of a secret, the tpl has to mix functionality of both volumes and environment types, as we will require a env block and a volumeMounts block

## Steps

- [x] add template test - to check a csi block is passed to the secret
- [x] modify deployment_spec.tpl so that it can accept  "csi" for the values of the "as"  and test the template builds appropriately 

## Release Notes (draft)

## TODOs

- [x] Update the docs.
- [x] Run the relevant tests successfully, including pre-commit checks.
- [x] Include release notes.

## Release Notes

Allow secret of type csi, inject Secret Store CSI related fields to deployment spec Env and Volumes


<br />
***


**ryehowell** commented *Jul 21, 2023*

Hi @omar-devolute, thanks for this contribution! I am going to add this to our project backlog so it gets into our queue for review. 
***

**nadiia-caspar** commented *Aug 2, 2023*

Hey @ryehowell any update for this? We are looking forward to using these changes in our infra!
***

**ryehowell** commented *Aug 3, 2023*

Hi @nadiia-caspar, thanks for following up! I am hoping to get to this soon. We have it in the queue for review. Hoping to take a look by the end of the week. Thanks for your patience!
***

**ryehowell** commented *Aug 8, 2023*

@nadiia-caspar @omar-devolute I just kicked off CI build. Will be reviewing this shortly.
***

**ryehowell** commented *Aug 8, 2023*

Looks like there are some CI test failures. I think it is due to a small regression that is noted in the review.
***

**nadiia-caspar** commented *Aug 17, 2023*

@ryehowell i have to take over this PR, could you please help me to complete it?

***

**ryehowell** commented *Aug 18, 2023*

Hi @nadiia-caspar, how can I help? Is there something specific that you need assistance with?
***

**nadiia-caspar** commented *Aug 18, 2023*

Hi @ryehowell i made some changes (not sure what helped exactly 😄) but the template tests are now successful. The integration tests we didn't add, the because it would require the installation of the Secret Store CSI driver Helm chart. So I guess now you can review the PR. Let me know if any changes are required
***

**nadiia-caspar** commented *Aug 28, 2023*

@ryehowell do you know when the release with these changes will be available in the helm repo?
***

**ryehowell** commented *Aug 28, 2023*

The latest version will be released at some point later today @nadiia-caspar and will be available in the Gruntwork Helm chart repo. I can send a message once the release has been completed and the latest version of the chart is available. 
***

**nadiia-caspar** commented *Aug 29, 2023*

@ryehowell thanks for the update, don't worry I will check the repo later today/tomorrow :) 
***

**ryehowell** commented *Aug 29, 2023*

Hi @nadiia-caspar, the latest version has been released and should be available within the next hour. Cheers!
***

