# Do not set deployment replica count if HPA enabled

**andywilde** commented *Sep 14, 2023*

<!-- Prepend '[WIP]' to the title if this PR is still a work-in-progress. Remove it when it is ready for review! -->

## Description

Do not set the number of replicas if the horizontal pod autoscaler(HPA) is enabled. This will avoid conflicts between helm deployment and the HPA.

Warning: on upgrade to this chart version, the number of pod replicas ->1 -> `minReplicas` set in the HPA section of `values.yaml`

This has been tested using `k8s-service-nginx` example.  
1. With Initial conditions: 
```yaml
replicaCount: 3
horizontalPodAutoscaler:
  enabled: false
  minReplicas: 2
  maxReplicas: 5
```
the pod count is `3`.  

2. Turn on HPA: 
```yaml
replicaCount: 3
horizontalPodAutoscaler:
  enabled: true
  minReplicas: 2
  maxReplicas: 5
```
and do `helm upgrade` and the pod count changes to `2`

3. Apply change and run `helm upgrade` the pod replica count goes down to `1` temporarily before reverting `2`
4. Change replicaCount to `4` and do helm upgrade
```yaml
replicaCount: 4
horizontalPodAutoscaler:
  enabled: true
  minReplicas: 2
  maxReplicas: 5
```
and pod count remains at `2`.

<!-- Description of the changes introduced by this PR. -->

## TODOs

Read the [Gruntwork contribution guidelines](https://gruntwork.notion.site/Gruntwork-Coding-Methodology-02fdcd6e4b004e818553684760bf691e).

- [ ] Update the docs.
- [ ] Run the relevant tests successfully, including pre-commit checks.
- [ ] Ensure any 3rd party code adheres with our [license policy](https://www.notion.so/gruntwork/Gruntwork-licenses-and-open-source-usage-policy-f7dece1f780341c7b69c1763f22b1378) or delete this line if its not applicable.
- [ ] Include release notes. If this PR is backward incompatible, include a migration guide.

## Release Notes (draft)

<!-- One-line description of the PR that can be included in the final release notes. -->
Do not set deployment replica count if HPA enabled

### Migration Guide



<!-- Important: If you made any backward incompatible changes, then you must write a migration guide! -->

<br />
***


**ryehowell** commented *Oct 6, 2023*

Hi @andywilde , thanks for submitting this PR! Apologies for the delay on getting a review for this, we've been working on some new features for the EKS module. I'm adding this to the queue to get reviewed as soon as possible. Thanks for your patience!

@mateimicu, if you are interested in getting eyes on this PR, feel free to review as well 😄 
***

