# Add additional_container_env value for arbitrary environment settings

**jjneely** commented *Jan 28, 2020*

This chart value allows one to specify arbitrary environment settings
for the main container.  This includes being able to do field references
to ingest the hostIP/podIP/etc.
<br />
***


**jjneely** commented *Jan 28, 2020*

Variable name is updated to camelCase
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Feb 3, 2020*

Thanks! Will you be able to contribute a template test? If not, I'll see if I can build on this PR to add one. I'm a bit buried with my current project, but I will see if I can squeeze it in next week.
***

**Dhertz** commented *Jun 10, 2020*

Hi @yorinasub17!

~This is a blocker for our deployment, as we also use Datadog. We are happy to help with the tests, but do not use helm 2. @bwhaley mentioned you might already have a patch we could use to get up and running, which would be great.~ Can rebase for this, thanks!

I also suspect this PR was abandoned as the test change is reasonably large, due to the function [`renderK8SServiceDeploymentWithSetValues`](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/helm-kubernetes-services/blob/master/test/k8s_service_template_render_helpers_for_test.go) only taking a `map[string]string` where as here we have a `[]map[string]interface{}`, looking like
```go
	[]map[string]interface{}{
		{
			"name": "DD_AGENT_HOST",
			"valueFrom": map[string]map[string]string{
				"fieldRef": map[string]string{
					"fieldPath": "status.hostIP",
				},
			},
		},
	}
```              
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Jun 10, 2020*

`setValues` has to be `map[string]string` because helm doesn't support complex object assignment in `--set` arg. To assign objects, you use dot notation. So to assign what you have:

```
map[string]string{
  "additionalContainerEnv.0.name": "DD_AGENT_HOST",
  "additionalContainerEnv.0.valueFrom.fieldRef.fieldPath": "status.hostIP",
}
```
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Jun 10, 2020*

This was merged in #67 
***

