# [k8s-services chart] Add support for custom resources

**rhoboat** commented *Nov 24, 2020*

Addresses #81, created from #82.

Todos from comment by @yorinasub17 

> Thanks for your contribution! Apologies for the delay in responding here! I lost track of this and just remembered to look.
> 
> This look like a great escape hatch to have here, but we will definitely want to document that this should only be used for resources that are not supported by the chart so that it isn't abused.
> 
> We can definitely move forward to add this in, once the following two things are added:
> 
> - A template test case
> - Documentation in the README

- [x] template test case
- [x] documentation in the README
<br />
***


**rhoboat** commented *Nov 25, 2020*

I pushed a WIP commit and have some questions!

The intent of this PR is to allow for any Kubernetes resources to be created, is that correct? This is different from a CRD, a CustomResourceDefinition, which is a `kind` of resource. Is that correct?

I renamed `customObjects` to `customResources` because I had a different understanding of what this would support. Is `customObjects` the better name? Seems so?

When testing this, what should the helper function that renders the part of the template return? I started thinking we needed a new helper function (` renderK8SServiceCustomResourcesWithSetValues`), but maybe we don't.

I could use some help understanding intent, and that render question.
***

**rhoboat** commented *Dec 15, 2020*

@yorinasub17 or @brikis98 Where would it make the most sense to add some documentation about this new support? Does it make sense [under this section](https://github.com/gruntwork-io/helm-kubernetes-services/blob/af1b30e95c5bdc7f6fceae6955bdb56275271e05/charts/k8s-service/README.md#what-resources-does-this-helm-chart-deploy)? (It doesn't make sense in the top level README.)
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Dec 16, 2020*

Looks like the build failed because this is missing the context. Should pass again once you port over one of the gruntwork contexts changes.
***

**rhoboat** commented *Dec 17, 2020*

@yorinasub17 Can you take a look at the documentation? How exactly does a user of this chart make changes to it, do they edit it directly, or do they provide a separate values.yaml with `customResources` defined? Do we also want to mention how to deploy using kubectl apply?
***

**rhoboat** commented *Dec 17, 2020*

Though CI was skipped in later commits, verified that tests passed: https://circleci.com/gh/gruntwork-io/helm-kubernetes-services/520
***

