# add podSecurityContext 

**RyuCaelum** commented *Jan 20, 2021*

Currently in the chart. The securityContext is only configurable within the container level scope. However, when having a higher level scope of the pod. This is not configurable. 

This PR is to allow configuring the pod level securityContext to be able to set things such as the fsGroup which cannot be set in the container scope but at the pod level. 
<br />
***


**RyuCaelum** commented *Jan 20, 2021*

@yorinasub17 could you please review this PR? Thanks 
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Jan 20, 2021*

Thanks for the contribution! However, I believe this feature already exists. See:

- https://github.com/gruntwork-io/helm-kubernetes-services/blob/master/charts/k8s-service/templates/deployment.yaml#L178
- https://github.com/gruntwork-io/helm-kubernetes-services/blob/master/charts/k8s-service/values.yaml#L103

Closing the PR for now, but feel free to open if you found a bug with the existing implementation!
***

**stuart-c** commented *Jan 21, 2021*

@yorinasub17 The feature you linked to is different. The existing securityContext puts configuration within the container scope (i.e. https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.20/#securitycontext-v1-core).

The code on this PR is for securityContext in the pod spec scope (i.e. https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.20/#podsecuritycontext-v1-core).

The two have different capabilities (although some overlap). For example fsGroup is only possible at the pod level (because it acts on volumes which don't exist on the container level).

Reading the documetation linked in the values.yaml does look a bit unclear - "settings for a Pod of Container." should probably read "settings for the Container within the Pod."
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Jan 21, 2021*

Ah gotcha. Thanks for clarifying. Can you update the docs for the existing value to make it clear it's for the container to differentiate with this one?
***

**RyuCaelum** commented *Jan 21, 2021*

@yorinasub17 I've made an update on the docs for the current one to clarify it is a container level setting
***

**RyuCaelum** commented *Jan 21, 2021*

@yorinasub17 I've updated the docs
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Jan 21, 2021*

Ok I ran the build (after cherrypicking https://github.com/gruntwork-io/helm-kubernetes-services/pull/89), but got a legitimate failure:

```
# github.com/gruntwork-io/helm-kubernetes-services/test [github.com/gruntwork-io/helm-kubernetes-services/test.test]
./k8s_service_template_test.go:156:50: renderedPodSpec.SecurityContext.fsGroup undefined (type *"k8s.io/api/core/v1".PodSecurityContext has no field or method fsGroup, but does have FSGroup)
FAIL	github.com/gruntwork-io/helm-kubernetes-services/test [build failed]
```

Can you fix it? Thanks!
***

**RyuCaelum** commented *Jan 21, 2021*

@yorinasub17  Fixed that error
***

**yorinasub17** commented *Jan 21, 2021*

Thanks kicking off another build now.
***

