# Remove IRSA feature as it leads to user confusion, due to the mutatin…

**yorinasub17** commented *May 3, 2021*

…g admission hook

This removes the `aws.irsa` input value and the related features. We originally included it as a way to setup IRSA without the mutating admission hook because EKS originally required deploying the mutating admission hook, but since then it is now included by default so there is no need to manually inject the projected AWS token.

It has led to confusion on several occassions, so will be removing it. Users should transition to using the mutating admission hook, which involves annotating the service account with `eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn`.

---

## Migration guide

This release deprecates the `aws` input value which was originally used for configuring AWS IAM Roles for Service Accounts using manual injection of the projected token (via environment variables and secrets mounting in the Pod). In newer versions of EKS, you can instead rely on the mutating admission hook that comes with every EKS cluster. To use the mutating admission hook, you need to apply the annotation `eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn` on the ServiceAccount.

Since the old approach of manually projecting the tokens is deprecated by AWS, this release removes the manual projection of tokens via the `aws` input value. If you were relying on the `aws.irsa` input value, you must instead switch to using the annotation on the Service Account:

```
serviceAccount:
  name: "my-app"
  create: true
  annotations:
    eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn: "IAM_ROLE_ARN"
```
<br />
***


**brikis98** commented *May 4, 2021*

I lack enough knowledge/context here to do a good review. Perhaps @rhoboat can help out?
***

**rhoboat** commented *May 24, 2021*

🤖 -voice ["I am needed?"](https://youtu.be/UtA-QpHg9Bo?t=15s) 
***

**rhoboat** commented *May 24, 2021*

@yorinasub17 Thanks for doing this! For this:

> If you were relying on the `aws.irsa` input value, it is recommended to instead switch to using the annotation on the Service Account:

Does it make sense to mention in the Release Notes Migration Guide that this is on the helm chart?

Also is backward compatible? Meaning, will the chart fail if they pass in `aws` in the `values.yaml`, or will it be ignored?
***

**rhoboat** commented *May 24, 2021*

One more question: 

Does every user need to add the `serviceAccount` annotation for `eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn`? It sounds like it might already be done by default by EKS, from your description.
***

**yorinasub17** commented *May 24, 2021*

> Does it make sense to mention in the Release Notes Migration Guide that this is on the helm chart?

I don't think that is necessary, given that this repo only contains helm charts.

> Also is backward compatible? Meaning, will the chart fail if they pass in aws in the values.yaml, or will it be ignored?

This is not backward compatible, as if you had `aws` passed in, you need to update your var to include the service account annotation for it to work. This is why I wrote a migration guide in the description.

> Does every user need to add the serviceAccount annotation for eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn? It sounds like it might already be done by default by EKS, from your description.

Updated the migration guide to clarify this point!
***

**rhoboat** commented *May 25, 2021*

> This is why I wrote a migration guide in the description.

Of course, sorry! My brain wasn't working for some reason.
***

**rhoboat** commented *May 25, 2021*

I'll let you merge it in, but it looks good to me!

***

**yorinasub17** commented *May 25, 2021*

Thanks for review. Merging now!
***

